[NEW POST] "Hey, computer: talk to me in Polish! Building a Polish-language speaking chatbot with Amazon SageMaker, Hugging Face, TRURL 2, and Streamlit" (#909)
build-on-aws/content: concepts/deploying-trurl-2-on-amazon-sagemaker/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: Hello there! 

What a super cool project!! 

First, you have fantastic energy in this narrative. It's so friendly, it has good pacing and structure. You also infused it with cultural background in a seamless way that helped put the function into perspective. I really liked that you added information about Poland and yourself. It personalized the blog. 

My edits focus primarily on correcting titles to AP Style and tweaking copy that was off in context or syntax. I made my edits based on the  Community.AWS Editorial Review Process. Please see my notes below. 

Overall, great job!! 👏🏼

title: "Hey, computer: talk to me in Polish! Building a Polish-language speaking chatbot with Amazon SageMaker, Hugging Face, TRURL 2, and Streamlit"  

> description: "Is it hard to use Large Language Models (LLMs) if you have to use non-English language? Let's put that to the test - by checking how hard it would be to build a Polish-speaking chatbot on top of Amazon SageMaker, Hugging Face, and TRURL 2 - a fine-tuned version of LLaMA 2 that primarily supports that language."

Reviewer: I love this paragraph because of it's friendly, inviting tone. But--you knew a but was coming--the descriptors need to be 60 characters or fewer. It can't repeat the messaging on the title or use the same words. It should also focus on what solution the reader gets from reading the piece. 

EX: "Can you use LLMs to build a foreign language chatbot? Yes!"
```

tags:
  - hugging-face
  - ai-ml
  - llm
  - sagemaker
  - python
spaces:
  - generative-ai
authorGithubAlias: afronski
authorName: Wojciech Gawroński
date: 2023-11-09
---

| ToC |
|-----|

> Picture this: you have a brilliant idea for a product needing a conversational user interface, e.g., a chatbot. As a builder, you know that *Large Language Models (LLMs)* can help you to tackle such challenges effectively. There is only one caveat: your idea requires that conversations should happen in **your local language**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Picture this: you have a brilliant idea for a product needing a conversational user interface, e.g., a chatbot. As a builder, you know that *Large Language Models (LLMs)* can help you tackle such challenges effectively. There is only one caveat: your idea requires that conversations should happen in **your local language**.
```

> In the technology world, we live in an English-centric landscape. If our products fit that definition or are built to be operated by tech-savvy people, it is straightforward to forget that other languages are needed. At the same time, technology should - and is - helping us to battle such challenges and gaps. There are models available already on the market that provide multilingual capabilities. So, how hard or easy would it be to cover a non-English language requirement? Let's check that in practice.

Reviewer: Rewrote for clarity. 

```suggestion
In the technology world, we live in an English-centric landscape. If our products fit that definition or are built to be operated by tech-savvy people, it is easy to forget that other languages are needed. At the same time, technology should - and is - helping us to battle such challenges and gaps. There are models available already on the market that provide multilingual capabilities. So, how hard or easy would it be to cover a non-English language requirement? Let's take that into practice.
```

I may be biased, but an obvious choice for me is... Polish language as I live in Poland. It's a choice in the middle, in terms of popularity - depending on the source - this language is around 25-30th place worldwide with a total population estimated around 44-45 million people. Then, the goal of this article is to explore *how challenging* it will be to build a chatbot that will communicate using my native language.

> ## Hey, computer: talk to me, *but in Polish!*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hey, Computer: Talk to Me, *but in Polish!*
```

## Prerequisites and Setup

Let's dive into the practice, then! To document properly the exploration and development process, I have prepared a *GitHub* repository with a complete example, which is available here: https://github.com/build-on-aws/deploying-trurl-2-on-amazon-sagemaker 

To successfully execute all steps in the given repository, you need to have the following prerequisites:

- Pre-installed tools:
    - Most recent *AWS CLI*.
    - *AWS CDK* in version 2.104.0 or higher.
    - Python 3.10 or higher.
    - Node.js v21.x or higher.
- Configured profile in the installed *AWS CLI* with credentials for your *AWS IAM* user account.

> ## How to use that repository?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How To Use the Repository
```

![Open a system terminal, not the Image terminal](./images/setup-4-open-system-terminal.png)

Then, in the *System terminal* (not the *Image terminal* - see the difference in the image above), run the following scripts:

```shell
# Those steps should be invoked in the *System terminal* inside *Amazon SageMaker Studio*:

$ cd deploying-trurl-2-on-amazon-sagemaker
$ ./install-amazon-code-whisperer-in-sagemaker-studio.sh
$ ./install-project-dependencies-in-sagemaker-studio.sh
```

Force refresh the browser tab with *SageMaker Studio*, and you are ready to proceed. Now it's time to follow the steps inside the notebook available in the `trurl-2` directory and explore the capabilities of the *TRURL 2* model that you will deploy from the *SageMaker Studio* notebook as an *Amazon SageMaker Endpoint* and *CodeWhisperer* will be our AI-powered coding companion throughout the process.

### Exploration via *Jupyter Lab 3.0* in *Amazon SageMaker Studio*

So now it's time to deploy the model as a *SageMaker Endpoint* and explore the possibilities, but first - you need to locate and open the notebook.

![Locate the notebook file and open it](./images/exploration-1-open-notebook.png)

> After opening it for the first time, a new dialog window will appear, asking you to configure *kernel* (the environment executing our code inside the notebook). Please configure it according to the screenshot below. If that window did not appear, or you've closed it by accident - you can always find that in the opened tab with a notebook under the 3rd icon on the screenshot above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After opening it for the first time, a new dialog window will appear, asking you to configure *kernel* (the environment executing our code inside the notebook). Please configure it according to the screenshot below. If that window did not appear, or you've closed it by accident - you can always find it in the opened tab with a notebook under the third icon on the screenshot above.
```

![Configure kernel for your exploration notebook](./images/exploration-2-configure-kernel.png)

Now, you should be able to follow instructions inside the notebook by executing each cell with code one after another (via the toolbar or keyboard shortcut: `CTRL/CMD + ENTER`). Remember that before executing the clean-up section and invoking the cell with `predictor.delete_endpoint()`, you should *stop*, as we will need the running endpoint for the next section. 

The exploration aims to deploy an *Amazon SageMaker Endpoint* with a *TRURL 2* model with 7B parameters and play with that in various use cases. You do that to learn how to call *SageMaker API*, understand the nuances of prompt engineering, or tweak model parameters. Everything before you move to developing an actual *chatbot*.  

> ### Developing a prototype chatbot application with *Streamlit*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Developing a Prototype Chatbot Application With *Streamlit*
```

        with st.spinner("Thinking..."):
            response = talk_with_trurl2(predictor, st.session_state.messages)
            placeholder = st.empty()
            full_response = ''

            for item in response:
                full_response += item
                placeholder.markdown(full_response)

            placeholder.markdown(full_response)

    message = {"role": "assistant", "content": full_response}
    st.session_state.messages.append(message)
```

Then, an actual call to the model consists of two steps - building a prompt and calling the model deployed on *Amazon SageMaker*: 

```python
def talk_with_trurl2(endpoint, dict_message):
    llama2_prompt = build_llama2_prompt(dict_message)
    output = call_sagemaker_endpoint(endpoint, llama2_prompt)
    return output
```

The returned value is then wrapped as a new conversation entry, with a specific role assigned (`"assistant"`) to visualize that in the conversation flow. For those who do not speak *Polish*, the main part of the prompt sets a friendly conversational tone and asks the chatbot to play a game of 20 questions, where a player specifies the category to guess as an entry point to the conversation.  

> ## Clean-up, Costs, and Conclusion

Reviewer: Please break up this section so that "Conclusion" an have its own section.

```shell
# Those steps should be invoked locally from the repository root:

$ export STUDIO_STACK_NAME="Environment-SageMakerStudio"
$ export EFS_ID=$(aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name "${STUDIO_STACK_NAME}" --query "Stacks[0].Outputs[?OutputKey=='SharedAmazonSageMakerStudioDomainEFS'].OutputValue" --output text)
$ export DOMAIN_ID=$(aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name "${STUDIO_STACK_NAME}" --query "Stacks[0].Outputs[?OutputKey=='SharedAmazonSageMakerStudioDomainId'].OutputValue" --output text)

$ (cd infrastructure && cdk destroy "${STUDIO_STACK_NAME}")

$ ./clean-up-after-sagemaker-studio.sh "${EFS_ID}" "${DOMAIN_ID}"

$ (cd infrastructure && cdk destroy --all)
```

> 

Reviewer: You can title "Conclusion" here.

> Last but not least - I would like to provide a quick summary in terms of *how much does that cost*. The machines we created for and inside *Jupyter Notebook* are the most significant cost factor. Those are: compute for *Amazon SageMaker Endpoint* (1x `ml.g5.2xlarge`) and compute for *kernel* that was used by *Amazon SageMaker Studio Notebook* (1x `ml.t3.medium`). Assuming that we have set up all infrastructure in `eu-west-1`, the total cost of using 8 hours of cloud resources from this code sample will be lower than $15 ([here you can find detailed calculation](https://calculator.aws/#/estimate?id=789a6cd85ffac96e8b4321cca2a9a4d53cdb5210)). Everything else you created with the *infrastructure as code* (via *AWS CDK*) has a much lower cost, especially within the discussed time constraints.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last but not least - I would like to provide a quick summary in terms of *project costs*. The machines we created for and inside *Jupyter Notebook* are the most significant cost factor. Those are: compute for *Amazon SageMaker Endpoint* (1x `ml.g5.2xlarge`) and compute for *kernel* that was used by *Amazon SageMaker Studio Notebook* (1x `ml.t3.medium`). Assuming that we have set up all infrastructure in `eu-west-1`, the total cost of using 8 hours of cloud resources from this code sample will be lower than $15 ([here you can find detailed calculation](https://calculator.aws/#/estimate?id=789a6cd85ffac96e8b4321cca2a9a4d53cdb5210)). Everything else you created with the *infrastructure as code* (via *AWS CDK*) has a much lower cost, especially within the discussed time constraints.   
```

> Outside the successful delivery (as our chatbot speaks Polish), I hope that through the exploration and attached sample code, I have managed to convince you that a requirement of using a non-English *LLM* should not be a showstopper, even for the less popular languages - like *Polish*. Thanks to the seamless integration between *Amazon SageMaker* and *Hugging Face* - which aggregates models provided by *ML* community members and companies worldwide, you could develop an LLM-powered chatbot application that communicates in your native language pretty quickly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outside the successful delivery of our chatbot speaking Polish, I hope that through the exploration and attached sample code, I have managed to convince you that a requirement of using a non-English *LLM* should not be a showstopper, even for the less popular languages - like *Polish*. Thanks to the seamless integration between *Amazon SageMaker* and *Hugging Face* - which aggregates models provided by *ML* community members and companies worldwide, you could develop an LLM-powered chatbot application that communicates in your native language pretty quickly. 
```
